CCNx Protocol
=============


Abstract
--------

This document describes the CCNx protocol, the transport protocol
for a communications architecture called Content-Centric
Networking (CCN) built on _named data_.  CCN has no notion of host at
its lowest level -- a packet "address" names content, not location.
The CCNx protocol efficiently delivers named content rather than connecting
hosts to other hosts.  Every packet of data may be cached at any CCNx
router -- combined with intrinsic support for multicast or broadcast
delivery this leads to a very efficient use of the network when many
people are interested in the same content.

Introduction
------------

This document describes the CCNx protocol which provides
location-independent delivery services for named data packets.  The
services include multihop forwarding for end-to-end delivery, flow
control, transparent and automatic multicast delivery using
buffer storage available in the network, loop-free multipath
forwarding, verification of content integrity regardless of delivery
path, and carriage of arbitrary application data.  Applications run
the CCNx protocol over some lower-layer communications service capable of
transmitting packets.  There are no restrictions on the nature of the
lower-layer service: it may be a physical transport or another network
or transport protocol.  For example, applications will typically run
the CCNx protocol on top of UDP to take advantage of existing IP connectivity.
Since content is named independent of location in the CCNx protocol,
it may also be preserved indefinitely in the network, providing
effectively a form of distributed filesystem service.

The CCNx protocol is general, supporting a wide range of network
applications.  It may be natural to think of stored content
applications such as distribution of video or document files, but the
CCNx model also supports real-time communication and discovery
protocols and is general enough to carry conversations between hosts
such as TCP connections. The protocol supports a broad range of applications
by leaving the choice of naming conventions to the application.  This
document specifies the common functions that are independent of the
contents of the names and data and the semantics of exchanges. In
addition to this document, therefore, a complete specification of the
use of the CCNx protocol for a particular application will require additional
specification of the naming rules, data formats, and message
semantics.  Such specifications of application protocols on top of the
CCNx protocol (plus possibly API specifications) are called 'profiles'.

The CCNx protocol is designed for end-to-end communication between
applications and so it is intended to be integrated into application
processing rather than being implemented as a separate layer.

Definitions
~~~~~~~~~~~

node::
  a CCNx network entity that implements forwarding and
buffering
party::
  any entity in the network using the CCNx protocol to communicate.  Note
that parties are not just machines, but also applications using the protocol.
message:: 
  a CCNx packet.  We use this term to avoid confusion with the
lower-layer packet that may be carrying CCNx messages.  A single lower-layer
packet (for example a single UDP packet) MAY contain more than one
CCNx message.

Message Format and Encodings
----------------------------

Unlike many other protocols, the CCNx protocol does not have any
fixed-length fields.  Instead, CCNx data formats are defined by XML
schemas and encoded with explicitly identified field boundaries.  This
design permits field values of arbitrary length, optional fields that
consume no packet space when omitted, and nested structures.  The use
of XML structure does not imply that field values are text strings nor
does it require that messages be encoded as human-readable text.  Most
fields are defined to contain arbitrary binary values, including those
that identify content.

The wire format of CCNx messages is an link:BinaryEncoding.html[efficient binary
encoding of XML structures] called link:BinaryEncoding.html[ccnb], which defines
such things as the byte order. There is also a text XML encoding which
is useful for debugging, testing, presentation in documentation,
etc. but MUST NOT be used on the wire.

Content Identification
----------------------

The CCNx protocol accomplishes transfers of content by _name_,
irrespective of the identities or locations of machines involved.

CCNx content names are hierarchically-structured, consisting of a
number of 'components'.  The hierarchical structure is like that of IP
addresses, but CCNx names and name components have arbitrary lengths
and the component divisions are explicitly identified unlike in the classless
model of IP addresses.  The protocol does not depend on anything but
the hierarchical structure of the names so they may contain arbitrary
binary data such as encrypted data.

CCNx content names are not interpreted in the operation of the CCNx
protocol itself, just matched.  All assignment of meaning to names or
their component parts comes from application, institution, and/or global
conventions reflected in prefix forwarding rules.

A CCNx name sometimes identifies a specific chunk of data, but in other
cases identifies a collection of data by naming a point in
the name tree under which there may be multiple pieces of data.
A name identifying a collection of data is analogous to 
the address of a network in the host addressing scheme of IP, where the
network address can be seen to identify the collection of hosts
attached to that network.  In the case of naming a collection, the
CCNx name is a prefix of the name of every piece of content in the
collection, just as an IPv4 network address gives a prefix of the IP
addresses of member hosts.  For this reason, a CCNx name may be
referred to as a 'name prefix' or simply 'prefix'.

See link:Name.html[CCNx Name] for details of the structure and
representation of names.

The CCNx name of a chunk of data always contains as its final, most
specific component a value that is derived from the data, called the
'digest component'.  Since it is derived from the data itself, the
digest component is redundant and so is not transmitted.  For more
details see link:DigestComponent.html[Implicit Digest Component].

CCNx Message Types
------------------

There are two message types in the CCNx protocol: 'Interest' and
'Data' (also called 'Content' or 'Content Object').

The link:InterestMessage.html[Interest message] is used to request data
by name.  An Interest message can identify a chunk of content to
retrieve very specifically.  Alternatively, an Interest message can
provide a name prefix and other qualifications to restrict what data
is acceptable from the collection named by the prefix.

The link:ContentObject.html[Content Object] is used to supply data.  A
Content Object message not only contains a data payload but the
identifying name (without the implicit digest component),  a
cryptographic signature, and identification of the signer (called the
'publisher') along with other information about the signing.
Formally, a Content Object message is an immutable binding of a
name, a publisher, and a chunk of data.  Every Content Object message
is REQUIRED to contain a valid signature.  In this way, all data
communicated with the CCNx protocol is attested.

Any CCNx party MAY choose to verify the signature on any Content
Object message that it receives.  Applications that are going to make
use of the data MUST verify first.  Verification MAY require public
keys which are not themselves included in the Content Object message
to be verified.  A CCNx party MUST discard a Content Object message
that fails to verify.  

The CCNx protocol does not provide a separate mechanism for key
distribution, since keys can be distributed just like any other data
using the general features of the protocol.  Profiles for key
distribution are separate specifications, not part of the CCNx
protocol itself.  Signature verification can confirm that a Content
Object message has not been corrupted in transit (intentionally or
otherwise) since it was originally signed, and that it was signed by
the identified publisher, but these verifications are not the same as
determining that the publisher in question is a trustworthy source of
data for a particular application purpose.  CCNx parties SHOULD use
trust management practices to decide whether to trust data from
particular publishers for particular purposes, but such practices are
not specified as part of the CCNx protocol itself.  The CCNx protocol
is designed to ensure attestation of data, without constraining
decisions about key distribution and trust management.

Basic Exchange
--------------

Communication using the CCNx protocol is receiver-controlled.  A
consumer of data transmits an Interest message over available
connectivity and any party receiving the message and having data that
matches, or 'satisfies', the request (according to the specifications in the
link:InterestMessage.html[Interest Message]) may transmit a matching Content
Object message. Data MUST only be transmitted in response to an
Interest that matches the Data.  An Interest message MAY be
transmitted using broadcast or multicast facilities of the underlying
transport in order to reach many potential sources of data with
minimal bandwidth cost.  

A party MUST transmit at most one Content Object message in response
to a single received Interest message, even if the party has many
Content Objects that match.  This one-for-one mapping between Interest
and Data messages maintains a 'flow balance' that allows the receiver
to control the rate at which data is transmitted from a sender, and
avoids consuming bandwidth to send data anywhere it is not wanted.

Nodes SHOULD implement 'suppression' mechanisms to minimize the
potential for two different nodes to transmit two Content Object
messages in response to a single Interest received by both nodes (for
example via broadcast or multicast).  The suppression mechanisms
SHOULD include randomizing response times and detecting the fact that
another node has broadcast or multicast a response so the Interest may
be discarded. This version of the CCNx protocol does not specify
suppression rules.

A receiver that desires to retrieve a large collection of data
requiring multiple Content Object messages must transmit a sequence of
Interest messages.  For pipelining, a receiver MAY transmit multiple
Interest messages without waiting for data in response to each one before
sending the next.  This is only possible if the receiver knows enough
about the names of the Content Objects to construct different
Interests in advance.  Sending multiple Interest messages with
identical requests will usually cause the same Content Object to be
transmitted repeatedly, since senders MUST respond to Interests based
only on what content they have available at the time, and not on any
memory of what Content Objects they have previously transmitted.

The CCNx protocol does not assume that underlying transport of
messages is reliable.  To provide reliable delivery, Interest messages
that are not satisfied in some reasonable period of time must be
retransmitted.  A receiver MUST maintain a timer on unsatisfied
Interests for which it still wants the data, and retransmit
them when the timer expires.  This version of the CCNx protocol does
not specify timer values.

These rules govern the basic Interest/Data exchange for local
communication, that is communication between peers which directly
receive message transmissions from each other.  Since the CCNx
protocol may be used on top of any packet transport, this definition
of local is quite broad, including pairs of nodes physically far apart
but using a long-distance connection such as a TCP connection as a tunnel to
transmit CCNx messages directly.  Multihop CCNx protocol communication
requires forwarding of CCNx message which is specified in terms of the
node model described in the next section.

CCNx Node Model
---------------

A full CCNx node (as opposed to a limited CCNx party such as a single
application) contains the following data structures to provide
buffering/caching and loop-free forwarding.

Content Store (CS)::
   A buffer memory organized for retrieval by prefix match
   lookup on names.  Since CCNx Content Object messages are
   self-identifying and self-authenticating, each one is potentially
   useful to many consumers.  The CS SHOULD implement a replacement
   policy that maximizes the possibility of reuse such as
   Least Recently Used (LRU) or Least Frequently Used (LFU).  The CS
   MUST also implement the link:Staleness.html[Staleness Bit].  The CS
   MAY retain Content Object messages indefinitely but is not required
   to take any special measures to preserve them; the CS is a cache, not
   a persistent store.
Face::
   A 'face' is a generalization of the concept of 'interface': a face
   may be a connection to a network or directly to an application
   party.  A face may be configured to send and receive broadcast or
   multicast packets on a particular network interface, or to send and
   receive packets using point-to-point addressing in the underlying
   transport, or using a tunnel (for example a TCP tunnel).  A face
   may also be the connection to a single application process running
   on the same machine, via an encapsulation like UDP or an
   OS-specific interprocess communication path.  All messages arrive
   through a face and are sent out through a face.
Forwarding Information Base (FIB)::
   A table of outbound faces for Interests, organized for retrieval by
   longest prefix match lookup on names.  Each prefix entry in the FIB
   may point to a list of faces rather than only one.
Pending Interest Table (PIT)::
   A table of sources for unsatisfied Interests, organized for
   retrieval by longest prefix match lookup on names.  Each entry in
   the PIT may point to a list of sources.  Entries in the PIT MUST
   timeout rather than being held indefinitely.

Note that the tables listed above may be interconnected through a
single index to minimize the cost of lookup operations at the core of
CCNx message processing and forwarding.  Such an index must be ordered
or prioritized to achieve the effect of the lookup order specified below.

Processing Interest Messages
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

An Interest Message is processed according to the following sequence:

1. Lookup is performed on CS.  If a matching ContentObject
is found, it will be transmitted out the arrival face as a response to
the Interest Message.  Note that to match a ContentObject must satisfy
all of the specifications given in the Interest Message.  Note also
that it may be that multiple ContentObjects simultaneously match in
which case the specification in the link:InterestMessage.html[Interest
Message] will be used to determine which object to return.  When a
match is found in the CS, processing stops and the Interest
Message is discarded since it has been satisfied.
2. Lookup is performed on PIT.  If a matching Interest Message is
found in the PIT it means that an equivalent Interest Message has
already been forwarded and is pending.  The arrival face of the new
Interest Message is added to the list of sources of unsatisfied
Interests in the PIT entry and the the Interest Message is discarded.
3. Lookup is performed on FIB.  If a matching prefix is found in the
FIB, an entry is created in the PIT identifying the arrival face of
the Interest Message and the message is transmitted according to the
'strategy rules' to one or more of the outbound faces registered
for the prefix in the FIB.  Note that one of the outbound faces may
actually be connected to a local agent that uses the semantics of the
name to dynamically configure new faces.
4. If no match is found in the previous steps then the node has no way
to satisfy the Interest Message at present.  It may be held for a short
time before being discarded, since the creation of a new FIB entry may
provide way to satisfy it.

Processing Content Messages
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A ContentObject is processed according to the following sequence:

1. Lookup is performed on CS.  If a matching
ContentObject is found it means that the newly arrived ContentObject
is a duplicate which can safely be discarded, because any Interest
Messages have already been satisfied and new ones will be satisfied
out of the CS.
2. Lookup is performed on PIT.  If there is a match in the PIT, the
ContentObject is transmitted on all of the source faces for the
Interests represented in the PIT.  A node MAY perform verification of
the ContentObject before forwarding it, and MAY apply various policy
restrictions.
3. If no match is found in the previous steps, then the content is
unsolicited.  A node MUST NOT forward unsolicited data and SHOULD
discard unsolicited data but MAY store it in the CS in case it is
subsequently requested.

Strategy Rules
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Unlike in IP, CCNx FIB entries may point to multiple next-hop destinations
simultaneously.  The self-identifying nature of Interest Messages and
ContentObjects means that loops can be avoided without establishing a
spanning tree allowing only one destination for any particular prefix
at any particular node.  The possibility of multiple outbound faces
means that different strategies may be employed to select among them
when forwarding messages.  A node MUST implement some strategy rule,
even if it is only to transmit an Interest Message on all listed
outbound faces in sequence. A node MAY implement many different
strategies.  Strategy rules SHOULD be specified by FIB entries: in
this case the FIB entry MAY contain effectively a constrained program
for handling the forwarding of Interest Messages addressing the
particular prefix.

A node MUST discard PIT entries that have not been refreshed by the
arrival of new Interest Messages within some timeout.  The new
Interests confirm that the potential recipients are still interested
in receiving content.  A node MUST retransmit Interest Messages
periodically for pending PIT entries.  A node MAY use different
timeouts for refreshing the liveness of received Interest Messages
('downstream interests') from those used for retransmitting pending
Interest Messages ('upstream interests'), and MAY use different
timeouts associated for different faces.  In this way, each node
SHOULD match to both to downstream and upstream parties.

