CCNx Signature Generation and Verification
==========================================

== Source references
link:xsd.html[ccnx.xsd] is the xml schema that describes what the xml rendition of ccn data (including ContentObject messages) should look like.

link:dtd.html[ccnx.dtd] is a dtd that should describe the same, in a less strongly-typed fashion.

link:DTAG.html[tagname.csvdict] contains the mapping between the DTAG values used in the binary encoding and the element names used in the XML representation.

Here we specify how content signatures are generated in CCNx.

== Signed Content

A link:ContentObject.html[ContentObject] in CCNx consists
of:

.......................................................
ContentObject ::= Signature
                  Name
                  SignedInfo
                  Content
.......................................................

The Signature, described below, is computed over the concatenated ccnb
binary encoding of the `Name`, `SignedInfo` and `Content` components of the 
ContentObject, with all of their start and end tags, but *without* the
start or end tag of the ContentObject itself, or any component of the `Signature`.
This makes possible a signing implementation that takes a packet in over the
wire, selects the digest algorithm to use to verify the signature based on
information in the `Signature` component, and then digest the bulk of the 
packet, exactly as it arrived on the wire, in order to verify its signature.

== Signature

The Signature component of the ContentObject consists of:

.......................................................
Signature ::= DigestAlgorithm
              Witness
              SignatureBits
.......................................................

=== DigestAlgorithm

The digest algorithm specifies the cryptographic digest algorithm used
in signature generation. We need to specify either the digest
algorithm used to generate the signature, or a combined signature
algorithm which includes both the digest algorithm and public key
algorithm used (for example, "SHA1withRSA"), so that verifiers know
what digest to use to verify the signature. The X.509 digital
signature standard uses a signature algorithm specified at the start
of the certificate, as well as in the signature itself. The PKCS#7
standard for signed data, and the standard for XML signatures specify
only a digest algorithm up front.  Choosing to specify a digest
algorithm, rather than a signature algorithm, at the start (and to
only specify the digest algorithm, letting the signature algorithm be
determined by the key rather than separately specified in the
signature) forces us to assume that a given key can only be used for
one algorithm type. However, assuming that a smaller number of digest
algorithms are used than public key types, including only the digest
algorithm in the specifier saves us the bytes for a separate
specification of signature algorithm in the signature, and increases
the chance that we will also be able to elide the digest algorithm
identifier itself because the digest algorithm chosen will be one
selected as the most common default (for now, `SHA-256`, see
link:CryptographicAlgorithms.html[CryptographicAlgorithms]).

We place the digest algorithm identifier, along with the content of the signature
itself, at the start of the ContentObject, so that devices that need
to perform signature verification on the incoming data stream as it
arrives may do so. (Though they will need to store the Signature
itself for verification until both the data is processed and the public
key needed has been retrieved.)  For the moment, the digest algorithm
is specified as a UTF-8 encoding of an Object Identifier, or OID. If
it matches the default value (the OID for `SHA-256`, or `2.16.840.1.101.3.4.2.1`)
it is elided.

=== Witness

A Witness is additional information necessary to verify the signature,
particularly in the case where signature generation is aggregated and
performed over multiple ContentObjects at once. In such a case, the
Witness allows an individual ContentObject to be verified as being
part of that set. For example, elements authenticated using a Merkle
Hash Tree, the witness information would be the elements of the hash
path through the tree.  

The Witness is represented as a DER-encoded PKCS#1 DigestInfo, which
contains an AlgorithmIdentifier (an OID, together with any necessary
parameters) and a byte array (OCTET STRING) containing the digest
information to be interpreted according
to that OID.

=== SignatureBits

The contents of the digital signature itself, computed as appropriate for
the algorithm used (see below). For now, this is the bits of the signature
itself, encoded as appropriate for the particular cryptographic algorithm used
(in other words, no encapsulating specification of signature algorithm).

== Signature Generation

Signature generation in CCNx takes one of two forms: either individual
blocks are individually digitally signed with a standard public key signature
algorithm, or multiple blocks are signed at once using an aggregated signature.

=== Algorithm Choice

The choice of signature algorithm and signature granularity (whether,
or how much, to aggregate signing) is done by the publisher using a
number of considerations: most importantly ease of implementation,
computational constraints on the publisher and verifier, and bandwidth
constraints. Signing each block individually is more computationally
costly for the publisher than aggregating signature generation, but
offers lower latency and requires less space for the signature. (Aggregated
signatures require the use of per-block witness information to allow
each block to be individually verified.) Verification cost is lower for
aggregated signatures, as the consumer can cache and reuse the result of
verifying the signature itself, and even parts of the witness, across
multiple blocks. 

The choice of the public key algorithm used to generate
either the individual block or aggregated signature is determined by what
keys the publisher has available, what algorithms they expect their
consumers to support, and the relative cost of signature generation and
verification for individual algorithms, as well as, of course, their
security requirements. For example, the RSA algorithm offers a significant
asymmetry in signing and verification times -- signature generation being
an order of magnitude (or more) slower than verification. It is therefore
a good choice if signatures will be verified many more times than they will
be generated; at the cost of relatively long signatures. Elliptic curve
cryptography can be used to generate short signatures with high security,
but verification is as computationally expensive, or more expensive, than
signature generation.

=== Individual Block Signing

To sign an individual ContentObject, we generate a standard digital
signature using PKCS#1 padding over the Name, SignedInfo, and Content
portions of the encoded ContentObject described above with the
specified digest algorithm and a signature algorithm determined by
that and the key. We place the resulting signature in the
SignatureBits portion of the Signature, omitting the Witness. Such a
signature can be generated and verified using any number of standard
cryptographic libraries.

=== Aggregated Signing 

An aggregated signature takes a set of 2 or more ContentObjects, and generates
a signature over their combination, together with a set of per-object witness
data such that it is possible to verify for each ContentObject in the set that
it is indeed a member of the set, that it was signed as part of the set by the
designated public key, and that it has not been altered since (up to the security
of the cryptographic algorithms used).

The CCNx standard library currently implements a single aggregated
signature algorithm, using Merkle hash trees. However, the intent is
to make the aggregated, or bulk signature implementation sufficiently
parameterizable that other algorithms (for experimental or production
use) can be included. At the same time, the expectation that all nodes
in the network can verify any signature they choose suggests that the
number of production algorithms eventually supported will be relatively
limited. As of the initial release, aggregated signature generation is
set up to allow for new implementations to be added, but verification
is not.

While the typical use for aggregated signatures is to sign a set of related
content objects -- for example a set of segments from a single stream; there is
no requirement that the objects aggregated be related at all. (However, when they
are, it maximizes the likelihood that a verifier will be verifying them all
together and so will be able to reuse cached verification data.)

==== Merkle Hash Tree Aggregated Signatures

We describe here the aggregated signature algorithm implemented in the 
CCNx library (as of September 2009). Some of the design elements used
in this algorithm were selected to maximize overlap with the standard
signing implementation, and would be good common elements to use for
any aggregated signature implementation. Additional details of the 
implementation can be seen in the Java library source code.

A Merkle hash tree is constructed most simply by taking a set of data elements,
and arranging them as leaf nodes in a n-ary tree. Each leaf node is represented
by its cryptographic digest, or hash. The parent of a set of n leaves
is calculated by concatenating the digests of those n leaves
and then computing a cryptographic digest, or hash, over the result.
This process is iterated up the tree, until a single root digest
is calculated at the top. That root digest is then digitally signed.
To verify a single leaf, one needs the leaf itself, as well as a _Merkle Path_ through
the tree -- the values (digests) in the tree of that leaf's n-1 siblings,
and its parents' siblings, and so on up the tree, so as to be able to take
the leaf and the path values, and recompute the root. A consumer verifying the
leaf uses the leaf and path data to compute a root value, and then given a
digital signature on the actual root, determines whether or not the computed
root value matches the value that was originally computed and signed. 
Assuming the security of the cryptographic digest algorithm used to compute
the tree, this verifies the content and position of the leaf in the tree.

CCNx uses binary Merkle hash trees, with a parameterizable digest
algorithm used to compute the leaf and interior (node) digests. Given
a set of 2 or more ContentObjects, the leaf digest of each of those
ContentObjects is computed using the same method used to compute an
individual signature over a single ContentObject.  In other words, each
leaf is represented by the cryptographic digest of the concatenated ccnb binary
encodings of its contained Name, SignedInfo and Content fields.
The node (interior) digests of the tree are computed as described above -- as
the digest of the concatenation of the two children of the node to be computed.
If that node has only a left child (the tree formulation used ensures that
no node will have only a right child), the digest of that node is computed as
the digest of its left child alone (this simplifies implementation over skipping
the digest computation).

To generate the signature on a Merkle hash tree (MHT), we sign the
root node as follows: it's already a digest, so in n theory we could
just wrap it up in some PKCS#1 padding, encrypt it with our private
key, and voila! A signature. But there are basically no crypto
software packages that provide signature primitives that take
already-digested data and just do the padding and encryption, and so
we'd be asking anyone attempting to implement CCN MHT signing
(including ourselves) to re-implement a very complicated wheel, across
a number of signature algorithms.  We might also want to sign with a
key that does not support the digest algorithm we used to compute the
root (for example, DSA).  so we take the computationally very slightly
more expensive, but vastly simpler (implementation-wise) approach of
taking our digest and signing it with a standard signing API -- which
means digesting it one more time for the signature. So we sign (digest
+ encrypt) the root digest with a standard off-the-shelf signature
algorithm. It is this signature that we place in the SignatureBits of
the Signature of each ContentObject in the aggregated set, and the
digest algorithm used for this signature that we place in the
DigestAlgorithm field.

To represent the witness, or Merkle Path, for each ContentObject in
the aggregate, we list the leaf or node digests for the sibling of
this leaf, and the sibling of its parent, and on up the tree, in that
order. We do not include the digest of the leaf itself (that can be
calculated from the content) or the root digest (which can be
calculated from the calculated leaf digest and the path) in the path
data (witness). In order to be able to verify the content with respect
to the given path, the verifier needs to be able to determine whether
this leaf represents the left or right leaf in a terminal pair, and
which position (left or right child) each of the digests on the
witness path takes (as the computation of the parent digest is order
dependent). Because of the representation of trees used, the index of
the leaf whose path this is determines the position of the remainder
of the nodes on the path if they are presented in order (from top
to bottom). We therefore represent our Merkle Paths as follows (noted in
ASN.1):

.......................................................
MerklePath ::= SEQUENCE {
           nodeIndex INTEGER,                  
           nodes NodeList
}

NodeList ::= SEQUENCE OF OCTET STRING
.......................................................

We could probably save a few bytes by not encoding this
as DER, and simply packing in the bytes to represent this
data -- this encoding offers a fair amount of ease of parsing
and clarity, at the cost of probably 5 + 2*pathLength bytes of overhead,
or 20 bytes in typical paths. At some point this may
seem too much, and we will move to a more compact encoding.


The `Witness` for a Merkle hash tree-signed ContentObject contains,
as noted above, a DER-encoded PKCS#1 DigestInfo. The AlgorithmIdentifier
of that DigestInfo contains an OID that specifies both that this is
a Merkle path, and the component digest algorithm used to compute the
leaf and interior node digests.  The OCTET STRING of that DigestInfo
contains the DER-encoded MerklePath for this leaf. OIDs for initial
MHT algorithms are below. The default for the CCNx library is `SHA256MHT`.

.......................................................
SHA-1-Merkle-Hash-Tree ::= 1.2.840.113550.11.1.2.1

SHA-256-Merkle-Hash-Tree ::= 1.2.840.113550.11.1.2.2
.......................................................

